Let's get back to our example.
In the previous lecture, we defined that our software project consists of three components.
In greater terms.
Three subprojects.
So far these are only empty folders.
So if we would run Gradle, it wouldn't know what to do with these.
Also, there are no files in them to potentially do something with.
So for demonstration purpose, we're going to add one Java class to our data model component.
We put this into the source main Java folder, which is the standard folder structure for greater project.
Since Cradle and also intelligent does know that eventually this should be a Java project.
There's also no specific tool support for creating Java classes yet.
You can see that the class is not displayed in a package or anything like that.
A.J. just shows us a simple folder hierarchy.
So let's turn this into a Java library component.
To give meaning to a subproject or component in gradle you use the build gradle file.
So we add the build cradle CTS file to our data model project.
We use the dot CTS extension again to say that we want to use Scotland version of the DSTL.
Now in built files, you can do a lot of things because again, you have the full power of the common
language available.
If you look at many existing builds, you often find large and very complicated build files.
Therefore, one very important aspect for me is to show you how to keep both files clean.
A clean build file should always have a plugins block in the top.
That's not always the case in existing builds because in older versions, Gradle offered other means
to do similar things.
If you start with Gradle now, please always use this plugins block.
In the plugin block, you apply Gradle plugins, and Gradle plugins are the things that give meaning
to a component or a sub project.
So we want this project to be a Java library.
Java library is a term greater to express that.
This is a project that has Java code that could be built and then this can be used in another project,
for example, an application that assembles several Java libraries to one application.
In the end.
Now you'll apply a plugin y ide.
And Greater Corps of US, the Java Library plugin.
Once we did this, we can link the project again in IntelliJ and we see that IntelliJ recognized the
source main Java folder as a folder for Java sources and uses this knowledge, for example, to display
a proper Java package instead of a plain folder structure.
And then if we go into the message model class we created, we now have full Java tool support when
writing code in this class.
So let's fill this class to have some example code to work with.
Let's also create a build file for the business logic component.
Here.
We also applied the Java Library plugin because this is also a Java library.
And then we also create a build file for the project.
And here we apply the application plugin which adds functionality for packaging and running Java applications.
As you may assume, there are a lot of similarities between Java libraries and applications.
For example, both have Java code that needs to be compiled or if we do testing, they both can be tested
with Java test frameworks.
This is quite common that you have certain build functionality that you need in all your subprojects,
but then have some small things that differ or added on top.
That's why Gradle allows to compose plugins.
So there's another plugin called Java, which we could apply like this.
So this plugin actually adds all of the Java core functionality like compiling code, testing code and
packaging Java files.
It's a Java library or the application plug in.
Just add a little bit on top.
But they automatically already apply the Java plugin, so we don't need to do this here.
We could write it because a plugin is only applied once.
So stating several times at a certain plugin with a certain ID is applied doesn't make a difference.
So Composability of plugins is a very powerful feature to configure Gradle builds and we'll see in a
bit how we can make use of that.
Let's first see what else we might want to configure for our subprojects.
One thing that's quite obvious when you build Java code is to configure the Java version that should
be used for configuring Java version later.
Nowadays as a feature called Java two chains, which will use your Lexis.
So in this Java configuration block.
We can define that a certain Java language version should be used for compiling and testing Java code.
Now this configuration block here with the name Java is called an extension in Gradle because this was
actually added by the Java plugin.
So it's an extension to the greater DSL that the plugin adds.
If we would remove the plugin up here again and link the project was intelligent.
This Java configuration block.
The Java extension is not recognized anymore because it only exists once the Java plugin was applied.
This is another powerful feature of Gradle that the DSL can be extended by a plugin to make it more
specific to a certain domain.
In this case, Java projects.
The example also shows that the core of Gradle is actually not Java specific, but it's very Java oriented
and often used to build Java project.
It could be used to build any kind of software with the corresponding plugins added and plugins is something
you can develop yourself on top of.
Greater core is just that some plugins come directly with Gradle, which could theoretically also be
separated.
So the Java and the Java Library and the application plugins are plugins that are packaged with Gradle.
We'll get to other plugins that are not packaged with Gradle in a bit as well.
So if we configure the Java version here in our data model, build Gradle file, we probably also want
the same version configured in the business logic build file.
So let's copy it over here and in the app components build file.
So we copy it here as well.
Of course, we don't want this redundancy, so the next lecture will learn how to centralize such build
configuration and reuse it in all of our projects.
To summarize this lecture, we have learned that we can give meaning to our own components or subprojects,
as they are called, in technical terms.
By applying plugin, we apply plugins in the build gradle file that we add to each of the components.
So a greater plugin with a certain ID could also be seen as a type you give to a project.
So we say this is a Java library by using the Java library ID for the plugin and then Gradle and the
ID know that this is a Java library and can do something with this information.
In the lecture, after the next we will run our gradle build and then we'll see what things the Java
and the Java Library plugin edit.